In the last lecture, we had a brief look at why this update counter is displayed and
how this roughtly works.
No worries, we're going to dive deeper into this
ts file and work more with it in the next lectures
but what about all the other files and folders we have here?
Let's go from top to bottom, .api and .vscode,
we may basically ignore them. .api holds some Power BI code we use here, so some code which does
of course all the other things connected to our service or to the desktop and gives us certain features
which we use implicitly so that we don't have to write everything in our code,
we don't need to change anything there and we shouldn't.
.vscode is simply created by our editor here, by our IDE and if you're using a different IDE, you won't
have that folder.
The assets folder holds any assets you might use in your visuals, you can since you're using HTML embed
images or anything like that
and you also need an icon for your visual which will later be displayed once you ship that to the
visuals custom, visuals catalog
and other people downloaded it and I will show you how to make this the icon later. The source folder will
hold all your Typescript code, only one file at the beginning and the style folder holds a .less file.
Now we use CSS to style our HTML code but actually, we can use less here which is a preprocessor
which just like Typescript does for Javascript gives us more features and if you don't know less,
the great thing is you can write normal CSS code in this .less file but if you do know less, do
know which extra features it offers you, like here
nesting CSS elements which is not possible otherwise, CSS selectors, this is something you can do here.
So this is where we can style everything and that is actually where we gave our counter this yellow
background,
so if we switch this to red here and hit save, you'll see that once we reload it, it is red.
So that is the styling. Now the other files are used for configuring our project.
We may ignore the npmignore file, that's not important for us,
more important is the capabilities.json file. Here
we can later configure which options the user will see here on the right,
so which values we can add to our visual or how we can change something about it, how we can configure
it here in our Power BI Desktop or service interface.
The other thing is the package.json file,
it's pretty empty as of now but it will soon grow a little bit as we add more packages,
specifically this d3 package, this data driven documents package. There
it will store a reference to all dependencies we use, so that if we share our project with someone else,
this someone else is quickly able to see which dependencies this project uses. The pbiviz.json file
configures our custom visual, we define a name, an internal name and a display name
here, some unique ID, we can add a description which is shown in this custom visual catalog,
we can add a support URL and information about the offer and here, we also linked the
icon we want to use for this visual. We also can link which style files we use,
this is the visual.less file we're using here and we will use this externalJS array here which will allow
us to connect our visual to external Javascript libraries which you might add and we will do so in the
next lectures. The tsconfig.json file configures how Typescript gets compiled.
The default settings, just like in the other files should be fine for you, from time to time
we need to change something here though, especially once we add new Typescript files to the project, that
we will need to add them to the files array
and there is one other change we will do in a second
once we added a new package. That is the files and folders we have, with that I'd say let's get started
changing our visual so that we can step-by-step build a more impressive one.